Fix readme pr (#1008)
NethermindEth/warp: contributing.md

# Contributing

You can contribute to Warp by raising issues and PRs. Simply filing issues for problems you encounter is a great way to contribute. Contributing implementations is greatly appreciated.

## DOs and DON'Ts

Please do:

- **DO** give priority to the current style of the project or file you're changing even if it diverges from the general guidelines.
- **DO** include tests for both, new features and bug fixes
- **DO** keep the discussions focused on the initial topic

Please do not:

- **DON'T** raise PRs with style changes
- **DON'T** surprise us with big pull requests. It's better to first raise it as an issue and have it discussed
- **DON'T** commit code that you didn't author. This may breach IP
- **DON'T** submit PRs that alter licensing, contributing guide lines or code of conduct

> ## Installation

Reviewer: Contributing.md should also mention dependencies / prerequisites

Author: It does :eyes:

Reviewer: Oh I see. So let's stick to one format, either with `Dependencies` headline or without

- **DO** include tests for both, new features and bug fixes
- **DO** keep the discussions focused on the initial topic

Please do not:

- **DON'T** raise PRs with style changes
- **DON'T** surprise us with big pull requests. It's better to first raise it as an issue and have it discussed
- **DON'T** commit code that you didn't author. This may breach IP
- **DON'T** submit PRs that alter licensing, contributing guide lines or code of conduct

## Installation

First, please make sure you have all the required external [dependencies](dependencies.md) installed.

Then, with a Python3.9 virtual environment activated, perform the following instructions:

1. Clone this repo and change directory into the `warp` folder.

2. Install the JavaScript dependencies:

```bash
yarn
```

3. Install the Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you are using a M1 chipped Mac and getting a `'gmp.h' file not found` error when installing Cairo run the following:

```bash
CFLAGS=-I`brew --prefix gmp`/include LDFLAGS=-L`brew --prefix gmp`/lib pip install ecdsa fastecdsa sympy
```

Then run the pip command above again.

4. Compile the project:

```bash

> yarn tsc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
yarn build
```

- **DON'T** raise PRs with style changes
- **DON'T** surprise us with big pull requests. It's better to first raise it as an issue and have it discussed
- **DON'T** commit code that you didn't author. This may breach IP
- **DON'T** submit PRs that alter licensing, contributing guide lines or code of conduct

## Installation

First, please make sure you have all the required external [dependencies](dependencies.md) installed.

Then, with a Python3.9 virtual environment activated, perform the following instructions:

1. Clone this repo and change directory into the `warp` folder.

2. Install the JavaScript dependencies:

```bash
yarn
```

3. Install the Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you are using a M1 chipped Mac and getting a `'gmp.h' file not found` error when installing Cairo run the following:

```bash
CFLAGS=-I`brew --prefix gmp`/include LDFLAGS=-L`brew --prefix gmp`/lib pip install ecdsa fastecdsa sympy
```

Then run the pip command above again.

4. Compile the project:

```bash
yarn build
```

5. Compile Warp libraries

```bash
yarn warplib
```

6. Test the installation worked by transpiling an example ERC20 contract:

```bash

> bin/warp transpile example_contracts/ERC20.sol

Reviewer 2: This path has changed. It's `exampleContracts` instead.

```

## First steps :feet:

To look what features we are currently working on or tasks that are pending to do, please checkout the [project on github](https://github.com/orgs/NethermindEth/projects/30/views/3).

## Developing tips :honey_pot:

> It can be tedious to manually recompile the project after every minor change. You can automate the process of recompiling by executing the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be tedious to manually recompile the project after every minor change. You can automate the process of recompiling by executing the following command in a separate terminal:
```

```bash

> yarn tsc -w

Reviewer: I think it should be
```suggestion
yarn dev
```

```

> You can also run warp instructions using docker to achieve the same. This is an example using `transpile` command:
> 
> ```bash
> docker-compose exec warp npx ts-node src transpile example_contracts/ERC20.sol
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively to `yarn dev` you can run typescript in interpreted mode to achieve the same. This is an example using `transpile` command:

```bash
npx ts-node src transpile example_contracts/ERC20.sol
```
```

- **DO** include tests for both, new features and bug fixes
- **DO** keep the discussions focused on the initial topic

Please do not:

- **DON'T** raise PRs with style changes
- **DON'T** surprise us with big pull requests. It's better to first raise it as an issue and have it discussed
- **DON'T** commit code that you didn't author. This may breach IP
- **DON'T** submit PRs that alter licensing, contributing guide lines or code of conduct

## Installation

First, please make sure you have all the required external [dependencies](dependencies.md) installed.

Then, with a Python3.9 virtual environment activated, perform the following instructions:

1. Clone this repo and change directory into the `warp` folder.

2. Install the JavaScript dependencies:

```bash
yarn
```

3. Install the Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you are using a M1 chipped Mac and getting a `'gmp.h' file not found` error when installing Cairo run the following:

```bash
CFLAGS=-I`brew --prefix gmp`/include LDFLAGS=-L`brew --prefix gmp`/lib pip install ecdsa fastecdsa sympy
```

Then run the pip command above again.

4. Compile the project:

```bash
yarn tsc
```

> 5. Compile Warp librariesÑ

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Compile Warp libraries
```

```bash
yarn warplib
```

6. Test the installation worked by transpiling an example ERC20 contract:

```bash
bin/warp transpile example_contracts/ERC20.sol
```

## First steps :feet:

To look what features we are currently working on or tasks that are pending to do, please checkout the [project on github](https://github.com/orgs/NethermindEth/projects/30/views/3).

## Developing tips :honey_pot:

While developing your code, remembering to compile the project every time some minor changes are applied can be annoying. You can start a process to recompile Warp on file changes.

In a separate terminal execute:

```bash
yarn dev
```

> You can also run warp instructions using docker to achieve the same. This is an example using `transpile` command:

Reviewer: It's not a property of docker, ts-node may be use regardless of environment

Author: I am not sure how to write what you mean. Could you add a suggestion?

Reviewer: Sure, I did below

```bash
docker-compose exec warp npx ts-node src transpile example_contracts/ERC20.sol
```

### Testing for contributors :stethoscope:

Warp includes three sets of tests:

- Compilation Tests: These tests ensure that transpiled contracts are valid Cairo code.

- Behaviour Tests: These tests verify the correct functionality of transpiled contracts.

- Semantic Tests: These tests involve transpiling Solidity's semantic tests and checking that the runtime behaviour remains consistent.

#### Compilation Tests

Start by running the compilation tests to verify that your contribution doesn't break any fundamental features. These tests are also the quickest to execute.

```bash
yarn test:examples
```

#### Behaviour Tests

> Behavior tests involve transpiling a set of Solidity contracts and deploying them to a testnet. Each deployed contract undergoes testing for all of its runtime functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behaviour tests involve transpiling a set of Solidity contracts and deploying them to a testnet. Each deployed contract undergoes testing for all of its runtime functionality.
```

1. Run the setup script (Required only once):

```bash
tests/behaviour/setup.sh
```

2. In a separate terminal, start a StarkNet testnet server (make sure cairo-lang is installed in the environment):

```bash
yarn testnet
```

3. Run the tests:

```bash
yarn test
```

<br>

To generate benchmarks locally during development:

```bash
yarn testnet:benchmark
yarn test
```

```python
python starknet-testnet/generateMarkdown.py
```

This saves the benchmarks at `benchmark/stats/data.md`

#### Semantic Tests

> Semantic tests involve transpiling each of Solidity's behavior tests and deploying them. Each test is executed, and its result is compared to the output of its Solidity counterpart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semantic tests involve transpiling each of Solidity's behaviour tests and deploying them. Each test is executed, and its result is compared to the output of its Solidity counterpart.
```

## DOs and DON'Ts

Please do:

- **DO** give priority to the current style of the project or file you're changing even if it diverges from the general guidelines.
- **DO** include tests for both, new features and bug fixes
- **DO** keep the discussions focused on the initial topic

Please do not:

- **DON'T** raise PRs with style changes
- **DON'T** surprise us with big pull requests. It's better to first raise it as an issue and have it discussed
- **DON'T** commit code that you didn't author. This may breach IP
- **DON'T** submit PRs that alter licensing, contributing guide lines or code of conduct

## First steps :feet:

If you like to contribute, the first step is to install Warp from source for devs [steps here](#warp-installation-method-2-from-sourcefor-devs)

To look what features we are currently working on or tasks that are pending to do, please checkout the project on github [here](https://github.com/orgs/NethermindEth/projects/30/views/3)

Also, please take a look through our [Contribution Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Developing tips :honey_pot:

> While developing your code, remembering to compile the project every time some minor changes are applied could be annoying. You could start a process that watch for changes and automatically recompile it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While developing your code, remembering to compile the project every time some minor changes are applied can be annoying. You can start a process to recompile Warp on file changes.
```

In a separate terminal execute:

```bash
yarn dev
```

> Developers could run warp instructions using docker. This is an example using `transpile` command:

Reviewer 3: Developers
```suggestion
You can also run warp instructions using docker to achieve the same. This is an example using `transpile` command:
```

```bash
docker-compose exec warp npx ts-node src transpile example_contracts/ERC20.sol
```

### Testing for contributors :stethoscope:

To test that your contribution doesn't break any features you can test that all previous example contracts transpile and then cairo compile by running the following:

```bash

> warp test

Reviewer 3: Does this still work?

Author: Nop, swapped with yarn test:examples

```

For this to work, you must have the cairo-lang package installed.
To test try:

```bash
starknet-compile -v
```

Instructions to set this up can be found at
https://www.cairo-lang.org/docs/quickstart.html

> Then to see that your contribution doesn't break the behaviour tests follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: Explain a little more about what behaviour tests are and what they test
